hey how's it going Dave 2d here so I
installed iOS 14 on some of my iPhones
the iPhone 11 pro the current se as well
as the old-school se this is a phone
with two gigs of ram and it still runs
the latest version of iOS which is
pretty solid okay the moment I installed
it you could just tell this is a very
significant update for Apple this in my
opinion is the biggest update they've
had for their phones in a really long
time I'm just gonna go right into it the
big one widgets like that's the thing
you notice right away if you see a
widget on the home screen you know
what's running iOS 14 this fundamentally
changes the way that the phones look in
terms of like the aesthetic of it but
it's also a very big shift in how these
phones can be used now right when the
event happened and the announced widgets
the first thing that came into my mind
was like well finally right this is
something we've seen on Android phones
forever and it's cool that they're
finally bringing it in but having used
this for a little bit it is quite
different like the experience of widgets
on the iPhone is very different from the
way that it feels on Android phones with
iOS app icons they collapse
automatically right like they all kind
of collapse at the top of the screen and
it changes the way that you interact
with your widgets and apps so on my
Android phone I put all of my app icons
on to the bottom of the screen and I do
it that way because my thumb just now
has easier access to those apps I can
just press it without any kind of
stretching or reaching and I put widgets
around the screen just away from those
app icons and this is just a personal
preference this is something that I've
always done but everyone has their way
of setting up widgets and apps on
Android phones with the iPhone even
though they have widgets now the apps
still collapse to the top of the screen
and it just feels different than how I
would expect a widget 'add iPhone
homescreen to feel and the other thing
that ties into this is that these
widgets come in three sizes a small a
medium and a large and the small size
widget the square looking one looks the
nicest on the home screen but it doesn't
have interactable elements like the
guidelines for developers is that when
you have a small widget
you can't press anything on that like
the moment you press it it launches the
app it doesn't have any kind of like
buttons that you can manipulate you need
to use the medium or large size widgets
to be able to have buttons that you can
interact with and it again it
fundamentally changes the way that you
can interact with this new widget system
I like it but it didn't feel immediately
familiar like I thought it would
coming from the widget it phones that I
use with Android
I do love smart stack and this is
something that feels this feels very
Apple and it feels really nice so you
can just have one widget area and then
swipe through several widgets that
you've placed in there similar to live
tiles from older Windows phones it's a
really nice thing it just keeps
everything clean right so you don't have
widgets everywhere another thing that
we've added this year is
picture-in-picture again something that
Android users have had forever it's nice
that they finally put it on I actually
found it weird that this phone the
iPhone se with its two gigs of RAM could
still do picture and picture like I
thought there would be some kind of RAM
limitation you're running a show and
you're still doing all this other stuff
on the phone and it still works it's
pretty cool they're also adding the
ability to change the default apps in
iOS 14 for at least two categories for
male and for internet browsers so if you
want to use something other than Safari
and other than iOS mail you can use
stuff like Chrome or whatever is that
you want it's cool it's a good start but
I feel like that should extend way
beyond just mail and Internet like one
of my favorite apps of all time is a
polo it's a reddit browsing app it's
simple but it's so good and it's so much
better than the official reddit client
in my opinion like this is an app that's
done by a solo developer it has
adjustable app icons it has a really
cleaner interface it's a kick-ass app
but I can't use that as my default
reddit browsing tool at least not right
now so I feel like it's a good start
that Apple's allowing any kind of
deviation from stock default app
launchers but I'd like to see more
another major feature they've added with
iOS 14 is the app library and if you're
unfamiliar with what that is it's
basically like a storage pen for all of
your apps so from people that have a ton
of apps is going to benefit you the most
just organizes and stores your apps off
of your home screen and it gives you a
lot of customized ability so you can
make your home screen ultra clean but
the way that the app library works is
it's different so you can see right here
I have a whole bunch of category folders
that were made by iOS like I didn't
input these categories myself it just
used smart word recognition or some kind
of algorithm to figure out this stuff
for me it's nice but it's just different
and it's not as intuitive as I'd want
some kind of app drawer to be on iOS
like if you look at the actual folders
to get into the folder you've hit the
bottom right cluster of icons but the
other ones will actually launch the apps
again is different but I think it's
better than nothing right it's been a
long time since we've been wanting some
kind of app storage thing one thing that
I see popping up on Twitter everyone's
talking about this right now is this
ability for iOS 14 to recognize backed
apps that can be you can double tap or
triple tap the back of the device
doesn't work on the old iPhone se also
doesn't work on the the new iPhone se so
basically anything with a knotch
can do it so I have mine set up for a
double tap to launch the control center
and this is on that's really nice on any
of the notched phones because in order
to access your brightness control or any
kind of control you have to stretch up
to the top right of the corner screen
and pull down and it's not inconvenience
but it's not you know it's not like a
super simple one-handed gesture but you
can now access that control center with
a double or triple tap but one thing I
noticed is that when you put the phone
down it activates that gesture as if
you've double or triple tap to the phone
because it's just knocking the phone to
sometimes three times and it's I'm
someone that puts my phone down often
with with a phone on and it just it
activates it so the idea of the double
and triple back tap is cool but if you
have habits like leaving your phone on
to put things down it kind of kills that
functionality but I think it's more for
accessibility anyways but it's cool that
they have this there's a whole bunch of
other features in ours 14 like the
photography improvements the full screen
change with a lot of the apps but yeah I
feel like iOS 14 is awesome this year I
feel like it's
it's a really nice step up in the right
direction and I think people will like
it in fact that it's running on older
phones like four-and-a-half-year phones
is is a huge win for Apple I like that
okay that's basically it I would
probably do like a deeper dive in IRS 14
as future betas come out because I feel
like this is still a very cursory look
at it because a lot of developers have
like this is the first day right so I'll
do something a little bit deeper in the
future but I hope you guys enjoyed this
video thumbs if you liked it
subs if you loved it see you guys next
time
[Music]